- [Reporter] Modern day pirates.
They carried out
sophisticated cyber attacks
over a seven month period.
- As of now there doesn't really
seem to be any one person in charge,
they're called LulzSec.
- [Robotic Voice] They unite.
- [Narrator] Behind one phrase,
"Respect Existence".
- [Robotic Voice] or "Expect Resistance".
(upbeat techno music)
- [Robotic Voice 2] You
are watching disrup[tv].
- [Narrator] A teenager living in New York
picks up his parents' phone to
contact the customer support
of "World of Warcraft".
- [Boy] Oh, My God, I just ran in.
- [Narrator] But instead,
he gets connected to a secure FBI line.
And in Detroit,
an FBI officer tries to get
in touch with his officials
but instead he's connected to a toy store.
LulzSec takes claim
and they received their
first stamp of authenticity.
They then go on a hacking
spree to take down
the Fox News Channel, LinkedIn profiles,
and the names of 73,000
"X Factor" contestants.
They release the transaction
logs of 3,100 ATMs in the UK.
Basically, they cause chaos for the fun
and their next move brings
them international attention.
The American Public Broadcasting system
suddenly saying Tupac
Shakur and Biggie Smalls
are still alive and living in New Zealand.
The hackers then use
an SQL injection method
in which malicious SQL statements
are inserted into an
entry field for execution.
This tricks the software
into vulnerability
and results in Sony Pictures data,
names, passwords being leaked.
LulzSec motivation?
Lawsuit.
George Hotz, who jailbroke
the PlayStation 3.
That's not fair.
The members of LulzSec then
release lists of hack usernames
to inform the public
of vulnerable websites
and give them a chance
to save themselves from being exploited.
On June 9th, an email
pops up on the computer
of an administrator at the
British National Health Service.
The email informs them of
a security vulnerability
in the NHS system.
Next, they hack into Bethesda,
but they remain quiet about it.
Just sit there.
(gentle upbeat music)
- [Man] The meerkat distracts the humans
while his sister sneaks behind.
(gentle upbeat music)
An important to possession.
With their winter den complete,
the meerkat family now
has access to disrupt+.
(gentle upbeat music)
They can stream hundreds of hours
of series, films, and podcasts.
(gentle upbeat music)
Plus, they've unlocked
patron-only rewards.
But unfortunately for the meerkats,
electricity does not
come easy in the wild.
- [Narrator] Next, they
hack in to Bethesda
but they remain quiet about it.
Just sit there.
Until a few months later
when they tweet out.
Next, they take down
"Minecraft", "League of
Legends", "The Escapists",
and an IT security
company called FinFisher.
They try to hack into Nintendo but,
a video emerges...
(upbeat techno music)
- [Narrator] The attack was made
on a nonprofit organization
affiliated with the FBI.
They deface the website with a message.
On June 13th, they decided to step it up
and release the emails and passwords
of a number of users of the US Senate.
Stakes escalate even further
when a plane attack of
the CIA is committed.
On June 15th, the website goes offline.
But internally,
all the systems are sent
into an immediate lockdown.
The event makes headlines.
LulzSec claimed responsibility.
And at 8:00 PM, they release their clutch.
Then begins their largest event yet
as they team up with Anonymous
and declare full cyber warfare.
Multiple releases from LulzSec
encourage their supporters
to steal and publish
classified information
and leave the term, "Antisec",
as a mark of intrusion.
By 11:00 AM the database of
Serious Organised Crime Agency,
a national law enforcement
office in the UK is compromised
and their website is taken down.
The team there exhaust all their resources
to bring the website back online,
just to witness another
attack later that day.
It takes another 24 hours
for them to get their website back online,
only to find fully vandalized
with the term, "Antisec".
What follows is a game of cat and mouse
because on the 21st of June,
the London Metro Police arrested
19-year-old from Wickford
locally known as Ryan.
LulzSec denies any
association with the man.
On the 22nd of June,
the Brazilian unit of LulzSec comes online
as they take down two government websites.
Personal information of the President
and the Mayor of Sao Paulo is made public.
On June 25th, we see their last data dump.
It contains numerous information
from Sony, Viacom, and Disney
to EMI and NBC Universal.
For the next month, LulzSec is
fairly quiet until July 18th
when a British newspaper,
The Sun, is hacked.
Their website is redirected to the Times
whose website has also been
hacked to resemble The Sun.
An uproar is instigated
when a fake story is
posted to the fake Sun
reporting that Rupert Murdoch,
owner of both The Sun
and The Times, has died.
The disbandment of LulzSec
comes as a surprise.
The number of enemy hackers
who wanted to reveal their
identities increased over time.
A Pastebin post in June,
2011, from hacker KillerCube
identified LulzSec's
Sabu as Hector Monsegur.
And later that month,
a group called at Team Web Ninjas appears
with the goal of identifying
all members of LulzSec
on behalf of the victims
of the group's hacks.
Then another hacker, Oneiroi,
takes down the group's
website and Twitter page.
On that same day, the
Guardian publishes leaked logs
from one of the group's IRC channels.
Soon, another group called the A team
claims to have the full
list of all LulzSec members.
- [Narrator] The London
Metro Police and the FBI
are in full investigative swing.
They execute a search warrant.
- [Robotic Voice 2] And find redacted.
- [Narrator] Who denies ever
being a member of LulzSec
but admits to chatting with members.
- [FBI Agent] So, here's the thing,
we need you to chat with them.
You know, we need you
to re-engage with them.
- [Man] I can't do that.
- [FBI Agent] Why?
- [Man] They all hate me.
:(
- [Narrator] So, soon
the FBI tracks down Sabu
in the lower East Side of New York.
Over the following seven
months, Sabu, pleads guilty
and agrees to work with them
to unmask the other members.
18-year-old male from Shetland, Topiary.
Kayla identified in London.
Two other arrests are made
in the Scotland Yard in
Wiltshire and South Yorkshire.
Then Tflow, followed
by Pwnsauce in Ireland.
Today, only one of the core seven members
has not been identified yet, Avunit.
After all is said and done
LulzSec releases one final statement,
"50 days of Lulz".
- [Narrator] They claim they
only planned to be active
for 50 days within which they
wanted to 'cause as much chaos
for the Lulz.
- [Narrator] Then, their
website goes offline.
Every last piece of digital evidence
is wiped from the internet
and the information highway
continues flowing on,
leaving them behind in
virtual chaotic myth.
(gentle music)
(lively upbeat music)